welcome to GUI and in web browsers 412
of February 2020 this week we have some
items on agenda and for some reason I'm
always first so maybe let's shuffle this
a little bit this week and Jacob can you
go for outrageous right yeah so I just
wanted to briefly talk about DNS over
HTTP so we have need to start we need to
get this implemented because right now
in j/s we don't handle resolution of dns
adder multi editors this creates problem
for like our Gateway nodes and anybody
else who wants to use DNS and trees and
get text record backs so we're going to
be working on implementing resolvers for
live p2p i synced up with hygge earlier
so what I'm gonna do is based off what
we talked about in the prior art for JSI
PFS for IP and s over Tina's I mean
going to work on creating a gist for
describing how this will work but the
basic idea is that for JSF p2p you be
able to provide a map of resolvers and
then those does that resolvers would be
configurable and then we'll just start
out right now with a small resolver for
handling the DNS errors because that's
what we have the highest priority for
right now but that will let us handle
resolvable so then JSF PTP will store
will still store the dns adder
associated with the peer and then when
we need to do dials or any lookups on
the multi adder we can do the resolution
with DNS cache based on the the TTL so
I'm gonna be working on that the end of
this week I get a just a proposal shared
out for how that will work and how that
will look like for a configuring Lib be
tepee but the idea is that Libby tepee
will also come with defaults for that so
people don't have to worry about
creating resolved us for that zone the
question I have had this page is sort of
like a background for folks who are not
familiar with next a question and
clarification oh there's an issue with
sort of like more details background in
case anyone is interested it's on the
edges IP of house but we just like check
out said we need to probably tackle DNS
other first in lately to be probably the
way it will work I think when someone
will initialize Jessica TFS we will
always pass that configuration to the
p2p I mean if someone wants to use
custom DNS resolver let's say a DNS
server is DPS had some service provider
probably it would the way it would look
in the end it would look like in
Jessica's it would be like passing that
to constructor and then internally a
sacrifice would pass that philippi
cookies that's more or less that long
yeah
yeah so we'll be doing everything
everything up to where Jess ipfs I look
briefly at the issue and I'll make sure
to go over that before finalizing
proposal the HTTP resolvers were more
specifically towards the the hosts of
the resolvers and then for for JSI PFS
it would likely just be instantiated
if it needed to override it would be
instantiating the certain resolvers that
lit p2p will use because it may in
theory people can provide resolvers for
whatever and it might not just be HTTP
resolvers but that will be the thing
that we're focus on first because we
have a very specific use cases we need
to solve for that
yep totally super cool make sure to see
see me when the proposal is more yeah
yeah super cool alright the next one is
what I think a factor the recent
refactor of a p2p and J's ipfs means for
our user facing applications namely a
companion web UI hand desktop self
assessment mode that multiple times so I
feel makes sense to could you go over
them and mention had all pages
pre-loaded before I rebooted my laptop
so from IP first companion perspective
we use internally both J's ipfs full
note we also run J's ipfs HTTP client so
user can pick between external and
embedded note and in brave we also use
like we make a more extensive use of
embedded JSF us where we provide custom
Lippe to the config and modules for
things like TCP transport and more like
more closely tailored version of
embedded JC DFS for that brief
environment and in all those touch
points we will have to basically a
probably do like a factor of IP fat
compile code that's why I did not work
on companion for some time mostly
waiting for dust to settle down around
ipfs waiting for the next rid of Jessica
Fez and also waiting for signal
instruction because that embedded node
is right now relying on WebSocket start
clicking brave so unless we have either
that web RTC one or
Stardust's ready companion is sort of
like a blocked and we are not able to
switch to the newer version yep that's
the topic of member the detective has
embraced it's a separate separate set of
challenges namely with some IP eyes
chromium ass API are being deprecated by
Google which gives us like a soft window
until 2022 to figure it out next steps
for brave but not like separate branch
of work on the ITF s web UI which is our
dashboard and interface for and it's
shaped with go IP of us we chase a DFS
with IP first companion and also with IP
felt desktop so this dashboard is either
bundled wave or is open from ipfs by
those projects and it's basically web
app in react which connects to ipfs HTTP
api over to ipfs api of our HDD client
which also got refactored and we'll meet
someone to give us some time to go over
all the users touch points with our api
and refactor that to the new api and for
a people desktop the surface it looks
similar is similar to IDF us web UI this
electron up however it does not have as
many touch points with idea a J's ipfs
HTTP client programmatic interface it's
mostly like just checks if notice out
and for everything else
it opens web UI however in all those GUI
applications we are still using the old
callbacks and promises based API before
did this refactor with introduced some
breaking changes so the patience we
gets it out eventually but I feel we
want to take it slow especially given
that in ipfs web UI we got end-to-end
tests which I started working here today
to make sure they work with both old and
new programmatic interface from the J's
side of things so that would enable us
to sort of like randos and run tests as
we are transitioning both like web UI
but also go active at Jessup EFS which
also will run those intern tests and
handle situation when we have like one
part front-end or back-end on of those
end-to-end tests being using the new ITI
and maybe the demon is l1 so that's more
or less the current situation and
high-level overview of where we are with
those with those factors
I believe that's it from me
I will have seven thing regarding the
starters since you mentioned it so
basically I've been pushing forward with
it in the last couple of days and now I
got to the the PR finally ready for an
initial review so basically there are
some things to eventually polish
regarding the encryption because the
initial version of star list was not
using Sakai oh and now with the current
dollar I'm using it it's working where
it's using the secure encryption which
we might not want to use we we are still
discussing if it should go with it or
not anyway I hope that we can get it
March next week and after getting it
emerged basically we also need we'll
need to deploy the starless new version
of the server and hopefully after that
the third list will be ready to be used
and that's it that's awesome yeah we
will probably need more than one
I would I would feel much better if we
had like two or three just two just two
from the get-go when someone learns
about Stardust and like signal signal
this temporary solution of signaling
servers like in every example and places
like that people should see like more
than one just to have that at the back
of their head a good habit to have
redundancy otherwise I am not sure what
will be the default I believe the
current default in like the default
bundle of J's ipfs is to fail if no like
web socket star servers are available
that won't be the case I think with the
refactor I need to double check though
but our dialing logic is our listening
logic is different than it used to be
before the refactor so now we don't just
like
the addresses we take it we're more
selective and we spin up listeners for
each address so we allow listeners to
fail but it could be possible if we need
to check but that's also should be
relatively easy to configure if we want
to do an update to JSF BTP to allow like
okay if WebSockets are listening is
failing let's not not fill out right
let's allow that failure but we may not
want to like right now it if all
WebSockets our addresses fail it will
fail in I touched upon that around the
works done for brace so embrace I
changed because the module for like
WebSocket star WebSockets are multi it
enables a mode when you could allow
failing of all of them I believe so I
slipped the flag slip the default for
brave so even if our signaling server is
down the note would still both that's
probably like safer default otherwise
like people may get surprised that at
some time nothing works
instead of just like subset of
connectivity yep do you want to show us
something what I think I feel that you
want to show us something you want me to
show it Jake you've already seen okay
let me share my screen
okay so I've been working on basically a
test runner based on playwrights
playwrights is basically the puppeteer
2.0 that supports chromium web capes and
Firefox and I'm gonna I want to run
des in browser but not to use karma
because it's awful so I tried to make it
work with playwright and turns out it's
super simple and neat allows for some
extra nice things that we couldn't or
would be hard to do with karma so you
guys are seeing my screen right yes
so simple stuff run the tests some
console logs this physically but knows
everything with a with webpack does a
little setup necessary for mocha spawns
the browser you want injects everything
and redirects the output to to the
console so basically when one of the
nice things here is that we get the same
output that we get from karma from mocha
so we look at the same type of formats
and formatting highlighting everything
is the same because it actually comes
from the same place this is basically
mocha running in the inner browser also
the source marks are a little bit better
than the ones we get from karma
you
you can actually jump to the correct
line we get the nice stiffs we had
everything the same way we would have if
we were to run mocha in an old apartment
when other nice nice thing is the the
debug mode she's a little bit Stabler
let's call it that then Karma's so we
can debugger thing we can look at
unhandled exceptions and caught errors
and stuff like that with dev tools and
debug everything and with this way the
browser window is kept open we even get
the favicon from mocha another thing is
that you can run this stuff inside a web
worker I don't remember the mode okay so
run with more water mode the tests are
run inside
so basically you see here the worker
running and everything is run inside of
this worker the same way we have right
now
good karma so new stuff that we don't
have right now is the ability to run in
incognito mode so you get a new window
you can check here this incognito and
everything runs the same way you can
click here and you get the file correct
file can develop directly here so
another thing that it's new and Wael
loves it is we can also run it in
extension mode and the extension mode
has a new feature which is actually
really useful
like an hour ago I made this it
automatically opens the dev tools for
the background page the background page
is basically the environments that the
extension runs and this is useful
because if without this it's kind of
troublesome you need to get to here
click here and then enable developer
moles to get this nice link and to get
finally to the stuff you want which is a
dev tools for the correct environments
and now it's automatic so basically I'm
using the playwright's
and I'm simulating clicks here clicks
here and redirecting to this page but
for the end user everything is automatic
and easy so yeah that's it one other
thing that this can already do is run
tape tests right now he just doesn't
know when to hand and the process so it
keeps everything open you need to first
close it but I'm working on it
but it's already runs because tape
doesn't need anything any setup you just
we just need to bundle everything so
it's it's able to run with the mocha
environment and I'm already doing the
the the tape runner here without the
mocha stuff but even in the book
environments everything runs and you get
the errors you get the source maps and
the same output you would get for
running tape in another environment yeah
that's it hopefully I can get this all
wrapped up and cleaned up and use it
start using it and if we don't I don't
find any major issues maybe incorporate
it in Asia and finally remove karma
I still need to figure out how to not
force everyone to download a million
times
playwrights because it's big it
downloads three different browsers and
I'm still researching a little bit how
can I make it easier on on everyone's
laptops and hard disks or SSDs and stuff
like that but I know I'll figure a
solution I'll figure out the solution
because right now we already have
electron inside a year if I had this
it's gonna be pretty huge either we make
every week every repo into a mono repo
and we only need it once or I need to
figure out the solution yeah that's it
hope you like it
I like it
it's super cool cuz both the balls
incognito even though it may sound weird
why incremental matters more and more
additional called
surface in browser browser vendors lands
for incognito mode mostly around like
tracking like websites detecting like
websites detecting that you are running
incognito or websites detecting - you're
running like ad blocker stuff like that
so even though those are ball even if
you incognito is like regular Dom
context it may like behavior maybe on
the edge cases on some like fringe IP
eyes may be different and we tend to use
those fringe IP is in our stack so it's
pretty good to have it out of the box
like part of the testers and for browser
extension is pretty time-consuming as
you could see it takes like five clicks
just to get to the console and in
chromium there as far as you know there
were there is no like shortcut in
Firefox you can do that however like
okay ate over 80% of the staff users and
complex companion users I think that
most of you
Chrome so it makes stuff much much
easier and also the browser extension
context it right now it's a regular web
page like we've done on an additional
API web extension API is on top of that
however behavior or around some things
may be different and having that super
easy way of writing tests and like
checking if we don't hit any like
hard-coded limitations of those contacts
will be super useful going forward I
think we talked early privately on that
but the overall plan is more or less for
those changes tool and energy right
either as a dependency or an option just
for yeah I just need to figure out the
the downloads part because I don't want
to increase a here we play right it's
it's already too big and this one even
though it has some nice stuff in it and
it's so simple and stable and it's so
much better but it's too big because we
we basically install a here everywhere
in every point we have a bunch of repos
in our computers so yeah I need to
figure out a way to tweeze that
transition but yeah and I just need to
figure out that part but you can still
look we can use it like installed
globally and stuff like that I'll
probably ask some of you to test it out
and see if it's any issues already
tested in our repos and it runs it says
normally so yeah we'll see
uh-huh Oh any and it's also as a watch
mode that basically spawns new pair new
tabs instead of just reloading which is
a little bit safer than then just
reloading the other page does anyone
have an additional agenda items because
I can add one ad hoc I've been working
on like redoing dogs for the subdomain
feature and just like a sneak peek take
over all documentation of a config file
got changed recently and I made the
Gateway section conform to that it's not
in the master yet cuz it will land with
the subdomain feature however now it's
much easier to like hot link to each
each part of the Gateway section and we
got this like global toggle for we will
have when it is PR ones for disabling
DNS link look up look up globally based
on the host header so other people may
point their ideas their domain names at
your key so someone some people may want
to disable that behavior and then this
new path prefix section which now will
have more substantial examples so for
example here like each parameter has an
example with some
thank you
let's see breaking up laughs everybody
else yes yeah you see we're broken up
you're speaking a 56k yeah I realized I
plugged my laptop and he probably
started throttling low battery or
something apologies for that
was it like entire like a segment choppy
or no you picked off maybe just just
above this alright
so quickly the Gateway yeah the gateway
configuration in this section has more
examples
with additional context I try to add an
example based on like actual gateway
that lives somewhere those are like our
canonical gateways one for subdomains or
for paths so it's much much easier for
people to understand those configuration
options in that context and then at the
end there are some like receipts for
specific types of gateway that people
may want to run with both examples and
additional context it's on the PR which
I will link in notes in meeting notes
but that's more or less where we are
with that next step for the subdomain
business is having selected matrix for
proximal cuz there's like a regular HTTP
proxy mode and there's this like HTTP
tunnel mode and we support both so
people will it will just work you never
know which most people run and people
honestly I did not fully understand the
difference and until I had to like
and some stuff around that so I like we
will just internet everything the the
cave up here is like I don't want to
grow the test too much because you need
to like eat for example if you want to
test request a subdomain we would have
to run that one directly once like twice
in each proxy mode and if there's a DNS
link resolve in the picture somewhere
that that's like additional permutation
and I want to like collapse the number
of permutations that would probably
write some other additional
orchestration for those gateway tests
but so far it looks pretty promising the
goal is to have it like the surface to
keep the surface small and easy to
maintain because it's like even for me
really sitting tests after a week
it's no fun and if someone will release
the DOE test in few months I want them
to have like at least some fun like
appreciating someone care but yeah
that's about it
[Music]
any questions
Roberto oh man I hope the nicknames are
not stick all right I don't believe we
have any more items this week we won't
be meeting on this call next week
because we will be meeting hopefully
face to face so this call will happen in
two weeks I guess unless we want we have
any like open topics you want to discuss
we can just cut it short this week and
return you like twenty minutes of your
time
does it sound good yes
man awesome alright see you next week
and see us in two weeks
bye thanks for by